=pod

=head1 NAME

Proj - perl interface to proj.org projection library.

=head1 VERSION

This documentation refers to Proj version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use v5.36;
    use Proj;

    say Proj::version();

    my $src = "EPSG:4326";
    my $tgt = "+proj=utm +zone=32 +datum=WGS84";
    my $p = Proj->crs2crs($src,$tgt);
    say $p->definition;
    $p = $p->norm;
    say $p->definition;

    my $a = [12, 55];
    my $b = $p->fwd($a);
    printf "\neasting: %.3f, northing: %.3f\n", @$b;

    printf "\neasting: %.3f, northing: %.3f\n", @{$p->fwd($a)};

    my $c = $p->inv($b);
    printf "\nlongitude: %g, latitude: %g\n", @$c;

    my $d = $p->inv($p->fwd($a));
    printf "\nlongitude: %g, latitude: %g\n", @$d;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perl binding to L<proj|http://proj.org> library.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 Transformation setup

=over

=item B<< Proj->create >> I<projstring>

Returns a transformation object from a projstring etc.

See L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_create>

=item B<< Proj->crs2crs >> I<sourcestring> I<targetstring>

Create a transformation object that is a pipeline between two known coordinate reference systems.

See   L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_create_crs_to_crs>

=item B<< $pj->norm >> 

Returns a PJ* object whose axis order is the one expected for visualization purposes.

See  L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_normalize_for_visualization>


=back

=head2 Coordinate transformation

=over

=item B<< $pj->trans >> I<dirn> I<coord_ref>

Transform a single coordinate.  Given a reference to array of doubles, returns a new array reference transformed.  The array may be any size from 2 to 4 items representing xy, xyz or xyzt coordinates. The dirn is either 1 for forward or -1 for inverse.

See  L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_trans>

=item B<< $pj->fwd >> I<coord-ref>

Equivalent to $pj->trans 1 coordref

=item B<< $pj->inv >> I<coord-ref>

Equivalent to $pj->trans -1 coordref


=back

=head2 Info Functions

=over

=item B<< Proj->version >>

Returns the version of the current instance of proj.  This is the version field from the PJ_INFO structure returned from the proj_info function.

See L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_info>

=item B<< $pj->definition >> 

Returns the proj-string that was used to create the PJ object with.  The definition field from the PJ_PROJ_INFO structure.

See L<https://proj.org/development/reference/functions.html#c.proj_pj_info> 

=back


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

Requires proj libraries installed.

eg Debian - apt install proj-bin proj-data libproj-dev

=head1 SEE ALSO

projinfo(1), projsync(1)

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

Ignores threading context in all functions. 

Oustanding issues involving the best approach to destroying old projections.

There are no known bugs in this module.
Patches are welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

Peter Dean

=head1 LICENCE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2024 Peter Dean

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself. See L<perlartistic>.
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
